(upbeat music)
-: Now there's no better way for you to learn
than to follow along practically.
So make sure that you've got Wireshark downloaded
and installed, and that you open the PCAP files
that I've attached to this course.
Now I'm going to demonstrate stuff practically
using GNS3.
But rather than you trying to build this topology
and replicate what I've done,
you can simply download the PCAP files
and then follow along.
The PCAP files that I'm sharing are the actual captures
that I'm gonna do now.
So you'll be able to follow along and also use Wireshark
to see the results that I get.
In this topology I've got two Windows PCs, PC1 and PC2.
So here's PC1, here's PC2.
PC1 has IP address, 10.1.1.1,
default gateway's 10.1.1.254,
which is the router in the topology.
PC2 has IP address, 10.1.2.1,
default gateway is 10.1.2.254,
which is the router in the topology.
So I'm simulating an entire network here in GNS3,
and I'm gonna show you how to capture packets,
or capture frames,
and we'll talk about those terms in a moment,
and then you'll be able to see what's going on.
I've also got a server in this topology.
The server is a web server, FTP server, TFTP server,
and runs other services.
So what I'll do is send traffic
from the hosts to each other, so PC1 to PC2 back again.
And also from the PCs to the server.
And then have a look at the captured packets
and hopefully you'll be able to see what's going on
and get an understanding of the frames, packets,
segments, and so forth.
And also get an understanding of how to use Wireshark.
(upbeat music)